Project Title: "Audio Resampling using DSP in MATLAB"

Introduction:

Digital signals are often provided with standard sampling rates for audio. For example, high-quality music is usually sampled at 22
kHz, 32 kHz, or 44 kHz while for telephone-quality speech it is sufficient to sample at 8 kHz.
Moving from one sampling rate to another in audio signals is called digital resampling and is a very useful tool in DSP.
This project looks at generating an audio resampling function that can resample signals from one sampling rate to another.

Changing the sampling rate
If the two sampling frequencies are integer-valued then re-sampling can be achieved by the following steps:
1. Up sampling: An up-sampled version of the signal (with aliasing) can be generated by interleaving the original samples
with the appropriate number of 0s.
2. Anti-aliasing filter: to remove the aliasing it is necessary to the low-pass filter the up-sampled signal at the appropriate
rate.
3. Downsampling: to reduce the sampling rate it is now only necessary to retain the appropriate samples.

Requirements:

Software and toolboxes needed: 
MATLAB R2020a 

Project Structure:

Step1 - Selecting an audio file in .wav format.

Step2 - Creating an audio resampling function on MATLAB with the following SYNTAX:
function output = audio_resample(input,input_rate,output_rate);
%
% Input values:
% input: the input signal
% input_rate : the sampling frequency of the input signal % output_rate :
the sampling frequency of the output signal %

% Output variables:
% output: the input signal resampled to the output % rate
%
% Admissible sampling rates are restricted to: 8kHz, 15kHz, 22kHz, 32kHz %
or 44kHz
%
% If an incorrect rate is given the function should indicate an error has
% occurred and then should exit
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

Step3 - Perform the audio resampling test. Check the effect of the key steps of the implementation when resampling the signal to a particular frequenct (say 32 kHz).
Use the power specttra plots, frequency and time plots to illustrate the key steps in the process.

Methodology:

You will need to design an appropriate digital low-pass filter. The ideal digital anti-aliasing filter is a digital sinc function of the
appropriate bandwidth as discussed in the previous labs. In the exercise below you may approximate this with an appropriately
truncated sinc function or you may use MATLAB’s filter design function called FIR1. The output of FIR1 is the filter’s impulse
response function which can then be convolved with the input signal. Care must be taken in selecting a suitable filter length and the
correct cut-off frequency.
NOTE: The frequency response function for a filter can be plotted using MATLAB’s freqz function.

License:

Information about the project's license.
Contact Information: Used the college license for using the MATLAB R2020a version. (IIIT-Guwahati).

